docs: initial start of the maintainership docs under the bounty program (#1894)
asyncapi/community: docs/maintainership-guide/general-information/mentor/onboarding-process.md

---
title: Mentors Onboarding Process
weight: 40
---

> The success of the AsyncAPI Maintainership Program depends heavily on thoughtful mentor-mentee pairing. Mentorship is more than guidance, it’s a shared commitment to growth, for both the contributor and the mentor. To help mentors start strong, we’ve designed an onboarding experience that brings clarity, alignment, and confidence.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The success of the AsyncAPI Maintainership Program depends heavily on the thoughtful pairing of mentors and mentees. Mentorship is more than guidance; it’s a shared commitment to growth for both the contributor and the mentor. To help mentors get started on the right foot, we’ve designed an onboarding experience that brings clarity, alignment, and confidence.
```

- **Kickoff Call:**  
    You’ll be invited to a Mentor Kickoff Call (optional for returning mentors) to align on goals, timelines, expectations, and answer any early questions before the program begins.
### Mentor Orientation

- **Live Orientation Session:**  
    You’ll join a live virtual orientation where program leads will walk you through:
    - The program’s structure, timeline, and key milestones
    - The support system available to mentors (e.g., async help, escalation paths)
    - Mentorship best practices, communication tips, and how to address contributor challenges.

- **Program Resources & Insights:**  
    Gain practical insights from past editions and receive access to useful resources like evaluation rubrics, messaging templates, and the AsyncAPI Mentorship Playbook to support your journey.

## Eligibility

AsyncAPI mentors are experienced contributors who actively shape the community and embody its values. They are trusted maintainers, open source advocates, and approachable collaborators.

To be eligible for the program, mentors must:

- Be a current contributor or maintainer of an AsyncAPI project.

> - Must be 18years and above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Must be 18 years and above.
```
